## Communication (5 questions)


#### 1. Explain to me a technical concept related to the role that you’re interviewing for.
For example regularization used in loss function. Regularization techniques are in general used to avoid overfitting. By overfiting we  understand a situation when the model is too complex for that dataset used for training. Regularization is the action of using coefficients of model directly in loss function as penalization. This helps having parameters of the model under control and avoid the situation when the parameters grow into relatively high numbers proportionally to the rest of parameters. There are two well known regularization techniques: L1 and L2. L1 regularization is also known as Lasso regression and L2 regularization is also known as Ridge regression. L1 regularization is used when we want to reduce the number of features in the model. L2 regularization is used when we want to reduce the magnitude of the coefficients. In both cases we want to avoid overfitting. There are long lasting discussion which one is actually better when fitting linear models.

#### 2. Introduce me to something you’re passionate about.
I am generally passionate about finding the right solution for the given problem that could be solved with data. When there are just data at the beginning most of the time unless the development has well refined workflows is not clear. I find the most interesting situation when there is chaos in the definition of target and it is up to your creativity to come up with ideas that might solve new problems. Seeing then the idea transforming into conrete results is the most rewarding part of the job.

#### 3. How would you explain an A/B test to an engineer with no statistics background? A linear regression?
  - A/B testing, or more broadly, multivariate testing, is the testing of different elements of a user's experience to determine which variation helps the business achieve its goal more effectively (i.e. increasing conversions, etc..)  This can be copy on a web site, button colors, different user interfaces, different email subject lines, calls to action, offers, etc. Before making decision which path is better to stick to we need to be sure about our decision. Statistics provide us tools that with given sample can tell us how much we are sure about the decision, based on the design of testing. Then it is up to us to get big enough sample to reach desired level of confidence. 
  - Imagine height of ppl and weight. It seems likely that the higher ppl are the more they will weight. This is basically the point of linear regression. We have variable or variables (in our case it is height) and then variable that we want to predict dependence on (in our case weight). Height will be proportional to weight. The proportionality constant is the slope of the line. We might also add constant that is not dependent on any input variable. 
#### 4. How would you explain a confidence interval to an engineer with no statistics background? What does 95% confidence mean?
  - Imagine you have 100 ppl and you know their height. You will order them to stand in line and they have to order themselves so that the smallest is on one side and the highest person is on the other side. The will count each other from the smallest person to the highest starting with 1 and ending with 100. The height of the person with number 5 will be the 5th percentile. The height of the person with number 95 will be the 95th percentile. The 95th percentile is the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval. The 5th percentile is the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval. The 95% confidence interval is the interval between the 5th and 95th percentile. The 50% conidence interval is also called median.
  - Now given the height of 50th person, or 50% percentile or median and height of 5th and 95th person we can calculate the 95% confidence interval. The 95% confidence interval is the interval between the 5th and 95th percentile. 
#### 5. How would you explain to a group of senior executives why data is important?
One may think that car is the model and gasoline are the data. I would say this analogy is what most ppl think of then they hear ML project, or they use somehting similar in their mind. I would say that data the world/map/terrain and the model is the car. The better the map the better the car can navigate. You can know that you want to get to London from Berlin, however if you have no idea where you are heading and you are blind, you can have the best car in the world and it will be still pointless. Any model is conditioned by the quality and amount fo data. 